Date :02/09/2020
Creator: Pubali Das Chowdhury

Description:
A startup called Sparkify wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to. They want us to ,
1.Define a proper snowflake data warehouse architecture to query their data, 
2.Create an ETL pipeline for data analysis.
3.Design databases to optimize queries on song play analysis, and bring you on the project.

Dataset:

Song Dataset

The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.
song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json
And below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like.
{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}

Log Dataset

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.
The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json

Schema for Song Play Analysis

Using the song and log datasets, you'll need to create a star schema optimized for queries on song play analysis. This includes the following tables.

Fact Table
1.	songplays - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
•	songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent


Dimension Tables
2.	users - users in the app
•	user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level
3.	songs - songs in music database
•	song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration
4.	artists - artists in music database
•	artist_id, name, location, latitude, longitude
5.	time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
•	start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday

Project Steps
Below are steps you can follow to complete the project:
Create Tables
1.	Write CREATE statements in sql_queries.py to create each table.
2.	Write DROP statements in sql_queries.py to drop each table if it exists.
3.	Run create_tables.py to create your database and tables.
4.	Run test.ipynb to confirm the creation of your tables with the correct columns. Make sure to click "Restart kernel" to close the connection to the database after running this notebook.



